Merging changes from GraalPy master and updating docs (#34)
graalvm/graalpy.github.io: docs/graalpy-embedded/Getting_Started.md

# {{ page.title }}

You can use GraalPy from the GraalVM JDK, Oracle JDK, or OpenJDK using one of the many [GraalPy artefacts](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.graalvm.python).
You can easily add GraalPy to your Java application using Maven or Gradle build tools as shown below.
For generic setup instructions, see [embedding GraalVM languages in Java](https://www.graalvm.org/latest/reference-manual/embed-languages/).

> Note: The performance of the GraalPy runtime depends on the JDK in which you embed it. For more information, see [Runtime Optimization Support](https://www.graalvm.org/latest/reference-manual/embed-languages/#runtime-optimization-support).

## Maven

The [GraalPy distribution](/graalpy/#installing-graalpy) comes with a tool to generate a Maven project that embeds Python packages into a Java application using Maven artefacts:
```bash
graalpy -m standalone polyglot_app -o graalpy_java_app
```

> 

Reviewer: The gradle section includes a directory structure, so I think it would be worthwhile adding one for Maven, just to be consistent.

Author: added

> After generating the project it is self-contained and the GraalPy distribution is no longer needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The resulting project is self-contained and is not dependent on GraalPy.
```

Author: I disagree, it is dependent on GraalPy (otherwise how would it work at all?) - just not on the GraalPy distribution you used to generate it with.

Reviewer: Oh, of course. I completely got the wrong end of the stick.

<!-- The below will replace the text above from 24.0.0 onwards

The GraalPy project publishes a Maven archetype to generate a project skeleton:
```bash
mvn archetype:generate \
  -DarchetypeGroupId=org.graalvm.python \
  -DarchetypeArtifactId=graalpy-archetype-polyglot-app \
  -DarchetypeVersion=24.0.0
```

-->

The generated project uses the [GraalVM SDK Polyglot API](https://www.graalvm.org/sdk/javadoc/org/graalvm/polyglot/package-summary.html) with additional support to manage Python virtual environments and integrate Python package dependencies with a Maven workflow.

> The archetype Java code and the _pom.xml_ file are heavily documented and the generated code describes available features. (If you do not wish to use Maven, the archetype Java code also provides guidance to create a custom embedding.)

Reviewer: Do you want to say "archetype" here, not "skeleton"?

## Gradle

> To set up project using Gradle, we assume you start with an existing Java application, set up (for example) using the following commands and accepting the default prompts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start with an existing Java application that you have created using the following command (for example) and  default prompts:
```

```bash
gradle init --type java-application \
            --project-name interop  \
            --package interop \
            --no-split-project \
            --dsl kotlin
```

> You should now have a project with at least the following structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The directory structure of your application should look like:
```

Author: Hm, I want to say that there will be more files, but these are the interesting ones

```bash
└── app
    ├── build.gradle.kts
    └── src
        └── main
            ├── java
            │   └── interop
            │       └── App.java
            └── resources
```

Edit the dependencies section of `app/build.gradle.kts` to include GraalPy and the Polyglot SDK:
```kotlin
implementation("org.graalvm.polyglot:polyglot:23.1.1")
implementation("org.graalvm.polyglot:python:23.1.1")
```

> Replace the code in `App.java` as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the code in the file named _App.java_ as follows:
```

```java
package interop;

import org.graalvm.polyglot.*;

class App {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        try (var context = Context.create()) {
            System.out.println(context.eval("python", "'Hello Python!'").asString());
        }
    }
}
```

We recommend to use Java modules build.

> To do so, add the appropriate plugin to the `plugins` section in that same file:

Reviewer: It might be better to combine all the changes to the build file before introducing the change to _App.java_.

Author: Absolutely

```kotlin
plugins {
    application
    id("org.javamodularity.moduleplugin") version "1.8.12"
}
```

> To convert the application into a module, create `app/src/main/java/module-info.java`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To convert the application into a module, create a new file named _app/src/main/java/module-info.java_ with the following contents:
```

```java
module interop {
    requires org.graalvm.polyglot;
}
```

> Finally, to run our application as a module rather than from the classpath, we edit `app/build.gradle.kts` again:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, to run the application as a module rather than from the classpath, edit _app/build.gradle.kts_ again:
```

```kotlin
application {
    mainClass.set("interop.App")
    mainModule.set("interop")
}
```

> A `./gradlew run` should now print `Hello Python!` to the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command `./gradlew run` should now print "Hello Python!" to the console.
```

> For a basic setup with Python packages, you should download the standalone [distribution](/graalpy/#installing-graalpy) of GraalPy for your platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a basic setup with Python packages, download the standalone [distribution](/graalpy/#installing-graalpy) of GraalPy for your platform.
```

> Create a [venv](/graalpy/#creating-a-virtual-environment) and install some [packages](/graalpy/#installing-a-package-using-pip) in the `resources` folder to include them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a [venv](/graalpy/#creating-a-virtual-environment) and install some [packages](/graalpy/#installing-a-package-using-pip) in the _resources_ directory to include them.
```

> You can refer to the [Maven](#maven) archetype code for details on how to use packages from Java.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [Maven](#maven) archetype code for details on how to use Java packages.
```
Is "archetype" correct here?

  -DarchetypeArtifactId=graalpy-archetype-polyglot-app \
  -DarchetypeVersion=24.0.0
```

-->

The generated project uses the [GraalVM SDK Polyglot API](https://www.graalvm.org/sdk/javadoc/org/graalvm/polyglot/package-summary.html) with additional support to manage Python virtual environments and integrate Python package dependencies with a Maven workflow.

The archetype Java code and the _pom.xml_ file are heavily documented and the generated code describes available features. (If you do not wish to use Maven, the archetype Java code also provides guidance to create a custom embedding.)

## Gradle

Start with an existing Java application that you have created using the following command (for example) and  default prompts:
```bash
gradle init --type java-application \
            --project-name interop  \
            --package interop \
            --no-split-project \
            --dsl kotlin
```

You should now have a project with at least the following structure:
```bash
└── app
    ├── build.gradle.kts
    └── src
        └── main
            ├── java
            │   └── interop
            │       └── App.java
            └── resources
```

> Edit the dependencies section of _app/build.gradle.kts_ to include GraalPy and the Polyglot SDK:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit the `dependencies` section of _app/build.gradle.kts_ to include GraalPy and the Polyglot SDK:
```
To be consistent with `plugins` section

```kotlin
implementation("org.graalvm.polyglot:polyglot:23.1.1")
implementation("org.graalvm.polyglot:python:23.1.1")
```

We recommend to use Java modules build.
To do so, add the appropriate plugin to the `plugins` section in that same file:
```kotlin
plugins {
    application
    id("org.javamodularity.moduleplugin") version "1.8.12"
}
```

> Finally, to run the application as a module rather than from the classpath, edit the _application_ section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, to run the application as a module rather than from the classpath, edit the `application` section:
```
To be consistent with the `plugins` section.

```kotlin
application {
    mainClass.set("interop.App")
    mainModule.set("interop")
}
```

To actually convert the application into a module, create a new file named _app/src/main/java/module-info.java_ with the following contents:
```java
module interop {
    requires org.graalvm.polyglot;
}
```

Finally, replace the code in the file named _App.java_ as follows for a small Python embedding:
```java
package interop;

import org.graalvm.polyglot.*;

class App {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        try (var context = Context.create()) {
            System.out.println(context.eval("python", "'Hello Python!'").asString());
        }
    }
}
```

We recommend to use Java modules build.
To do so, add the appropriate plugin to the `plugins` section in that same file:
```kotlin
plugins {
    application
    id("org.javamodularity.moduleplugin") version "1.8.12"
}
```

> To convert the application into a module, create `app/src/main/java/module-info.java`:

Reviewer: You've already created this file, in line 87

```java
module interop {
    requires org.graalvm.polyglot;
}
```

> Finally, to run our application as a module rather than from the classpath, we edit `app/build.gradle.kts` again:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, to run our application as a module rather than from the classpath, we edit _app/build.gradle.kts_ again:
```

```kotlin
application {
    mainClass.set("interop.App")
    mainModule.set("interop")
}
```

The command `./gradlew run` should now print "Hello Python!" to the console.
For a basic setup with Python packages, you should download the standalone [distribution](/graalpy/#installing-graalpy) of GraalPy for your platform.

> Create a [venv](/graalpy/#creating-a-virtual-environment) and install some [packages](/graalpy/#installing-a-package-using-pip) in the `resources` folder to include them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a [venv](/graalpy/#creating-a-virtual-environment) and install some [packages](/graalpy/#installing-a-package-using-pip) in the _resources/_ directory to include them.
```
We've been using directory, instead of folder.
